Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for
instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
JDK contains Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java),
a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc)
and other tools needed in Java development.


What is IDE?
A.
Integrated development Environment


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
Initially Java source code is written in an editor. Those written codes are
saved into a Source file, whose extension is .java. Next step is to compile
the source code, means translating into bytecode. Bytecode works machine
language for JVM (Java Virtual Machine) and it's extension for .class .
JVM uses 4 of its major components to run a java program:
(a) Class loader loads the bytecode from hard drive into RAM (since JVM
resides on RAM-Random Access Memory).
(b) then the bytecode goes through bytecode verifier. (c) bytecode verifier
verifies that no unnecessary classes can be run on JVM meaning java is secured and
(d)after that byte codes go to Execution engine, which translates bytecode into
native machine code, with the help of JIT Code Generator.


What is class?
A.
Class is a blueprint of an object.


What is object?
A.
An object is an instance of a class.


What is the entry point of an application?
A.
The main method:
public static void main (String[] args){}


Why main is static?
A.
It is necessary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.
Object class.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.
Path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like java.exe,
javac.exe, javadoc.exe, and etc. Classpath is system environment variable used
by the Java compiler and JVM. Java compiler and JVM use class-path to determine
the location of required class files.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.
Interface can only have abstract methods. Abstract classes can have both
abstract methods and regular method. Abstract method is a method with no body
and regular method is a method with body.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.
Interfaces and abstract classes cannot be instantiated. The only way to use them is, for
a class to implement an interface or extend an abstract class.


what is Access Specifier?
A.
Access specifiers establish the permissions we have to access or modify members of
a class within a certain range.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









